# Spacer Walking and PAM Analysis - Overview

The perl program (spacerWalkingAndPamAnalysis.pl) captures and counts the adaptor ligated sequences at every protospacer position (Spacer Walking) and also the PAM regions between the 5'flank and 3'flank (PAM Analysis)

## 1. SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

You will just need a bash and a perl environment (version 5 or higher) to run the program. No other dependencies involved. 

## 2. Execution Instructions

	sh masterAnalysis.sh config.txt

The config.txt file contains all the information needed to run the analysis script. The masterAnalysis.sh script serves as a wrapper which parses the information from the config.txt file and calls the spacerWalkingAndPamAnalysis.pl perl program.

### Config.txt file - contents

The config.txt file contains the below fields:

	INPUT_FILE =input.txt // Your input file containing the sample information, barcodes and flanks 
	PROJECT_NAME=Cas9-Run2 // Your project name 
	EXPT_FASTQ=AK101.fastq // Your fastq file that contains all your barcoded sample data
	RESULTS_DIR=/path/to/my/SpacerAndPamAnalysis // Directory where you want to write the results to
	BARCODE_LEN=6 // Barcode length in your barcoded fastq file
	EXPECTED_PAM_LEN=7 // Expected pam length between the flanks

### Input.txt file - contents

The input.txt is a tab delimited file conatining the sample name, position to analyze, barcode of the sample and the flanks at that position. Each position you wish to analyze get its own row with its associated flanks.

|Sample|Position|Barcode|   5_Flank	|3_Flank|
|:----:|:------:|:--------:|:------:|:-----:|
|Sample1 |	1 |	ACGAAG |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample1 |	2 |	ACGAAG |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTCA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample1 |	3 |	ACGAAG |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTACA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample2 |	1 |	TGCTTC |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample2 |	2 |	TGCTTC |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTCA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample2 |	3 |	TGCTTC |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTACA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample3 |	1 |	GTACCA |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample3 |	2 |	GTACCA |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTCA |	AGTTGACCCA |
|Sample3 |	3 |	GTACCA |	CGGCATTCCTGCTGAACCGCTCTTCCGATCTACA |	AGTTGACCCA |

### Analysis Results  

The spacer walking and pam data are written to the folder PAM_Data under your results directory location. For every position of interest, a summary file and a tsv (tab seperated values) file is generated. 

	The summary file - contains the numbers on the total number of reads analyzed, barcode matched and PAM detected.
   	The .tsv file - each position analyzed gets it own .tsv file with the data on the PAM sequence and its count for every sample. 

Example summary file:

|Sample1 | Count |
|:------:|:----:|
| Total Reads:|		100000 |
|Barcode Matched:|	22626 |
| PAM Counted:	|	79 |

Example .tsv file:

|Sample	|PAM |	Count |
|:------:|:---:|:------:|
|Sample1|	Total |79 |
|Sample1|	GGGACCA |	1 |
|Sample1|	GGGAAAG |	1 |
|Sample1|	GGGTAAA |	1 |
|Sample1|	TATGGAT |	1 |
		
|Sample	|PAM |	Count |
|:------:|:---:|:------:|
|Sample2|	Total |376 |
|Sample2|	TCTTGTC |	1 |
|Sample2|	GGGAAAG |	1 |
|Sample2|	TCTTGAA |	1 |
|Sample2|	TATGGAT |	1 |

## 3. DEMO

The demo data is present under the folder DEMO. It should take less than a minute to run the script. Only 2 positions are analyzed for 3 samples using a subset of the actual fastq file. The data was generated by running the following command.

sh masterAnalysis.sh config.txt

